And this video I'll be discussing about abstract data type that if ADT will learn what is ADT and that
I will explain it through an example.
And that is a list example.
So we will learn about list entity.
So first let us learn that on ADT editing means abstract data type.
So this you leave the dome abstract force to learn about data type.
What does it mean by data type.
So our data type is defined as a representation of data.
And second thing is operations on data.
So our data type is a defining tool Don's fosters how their data is represented.
It's how you are storing the data.
And second thing is what are the operations that you allow on the data.
So if we take an example of a integer data type in C C++ languages then if we assume that integer data
type it takes two bytes in C C++.
If I assume that then once I declare any variable of type into here in C C++ we get memory of two bytes
that is sixteen bits.
So these are 16 bits so an integer type data is stored in two bytes together as a single value as a
single data.
Not in this one but as reserved as sine but to allow both positive as the last negative numbers and
the rest of the fifteen bits are allowed for storing data that is any number.
This is one big one bid for sign but the remaining bits are meant for storing a number.
This is how integer is represented inside the memory and two bytes.
So this is the representation of integer data type.
So they said that the representation of data and the operations of data.
Example of a integer.
I have taken so integer.
This is how it is represented.
So this is the first thing we have covered.
And what are the operations allowed on integer type data in C C++ languages.
That is automatic.
Operations are allowed on them.
That is addition subtraction multiplication division and modulus.
Apart from this relational operations that is less than greater than an incremental agreement.
Operators are allowed.
That is a plus plus or minus minus would bring agreement and posting game.
So these are some of the set of operations that are allowed on integer data.
So lets on.
This is a data type.
So if you talk about a data type.
Any data type in a language then that data type will have its representations and a set of operations
on the data.
So when we are learning any programming language when we learn any data type we learn mostly about its
operation and sometimes we go into detail and also understand its representation.
Now let us see what is abstract abstract means hiding internal details.
Now if I take this example integer data type and these operations for performing these operations do
we really need to know how they are performing in the binary form inside the mean memory.
No.
We are concerned about declaring a variable and using it by performing these operations.
So we need not knowing down or details how these operations are performed.
Right.
Without knowing them we can use them.
So these things are hidden from us so we can call them as abstract without knowing internal details.
We can use it so internally deals are abstract for us.
So this is the example of a primitive raw data type I have taken and explain your meaning of data type
and meaning of abstract data type.
This does not abstract data.
This is primitive guitar type not the dome abstract data type.
Wired is in theory.
What is the meaning of this fun.
See this is related to object oriented programming languages.
When the object oriented programming languages being started use in software development then using
the glasses we can define our own data types that are abstract.
That is without knowing internally data we can use them.
So the storm is related to object oriented programming.
So let us take an example of a list and define their ties.
Abstract Data.
Let us take the example of a list that is list of elements or collection of elements.
So if I see List of elements I ticks few numbers for randomly.
So here I have taken the list of elements.
Now I can give in this as it is starting from 0 or 1 that it prints on my requirement.
That depends on my definition.
So I'm starting.
This is from 0 onwards.
So this is 0 1 2 and so on.
This is a list that is collection of elements.
Nor does the list.
This is on paper.
Now I want this list to be use in my program.
Then how I can represent a list.
So what are the things that I have to store for representing the list.
So the data that is required for storing this list as first I need space for storing elements.
Then the second thing is I need to have some capacity for list.
Then the talking is inside that capacity how many elements already I have in a list that is lent off
a list or size of a list.
So the third thing is size of a list.
So far we presenting this list.
I need three things space for storing the elements and its capacity that is maximum capacity and exercise
that that is the number of elements.
It is having so far representation of this fun.
I have two options.
One is I can use early in a program or I can use linguist so a representation of a list can be done
using any of these representation any of these methods that let us look at operations on the list.
What are the operations that we perform on the list for operations.
I will write a few operations here.
Then again I will explain all of them.
So the operations that I may be performing on the lists and the set of elements or the list of elements
I can add more elements.
So the operations that they can perform as add an element that is X or I may want to remove some element
from this fund.
So remove an element or I want to search for any particular element.
So let us see this surge.
I want to search for any element key element like this swansong.
I would be discussing all operations afterwards.
Now let me finish.
Abstract Data Types here see this list as an abstract data type.
It is having the representation of data and the operations on the data.
So then you have to take some data representations and operations on the data together.
It becomes a bigger type.
It becomes a data type.
Now this I can put together and they can define a class in C++ or in any other object oriented programming
language.
Then the question is how you'll be storing this list of elements either agree on Linked List whatever
it is use.
This is going to work perfectly.
I love performing decent of operations for me.
Now how does a presentation is done.
I need not bother about it.
I need not bother.
When the class is written I can just create the object of the class and I can use it.
So how internally the things are working I need not worry.
That's what it's abstract.
So the concept of abstract data type defined their data and operations on data together and let it be
used as data type by hiding all the internal details.
So this concept of abstract data type is very common in C++.
So I can say that when you write any class in C++ which has the data presentation and operations together
it defines an abstract type.
So know a subject that structure we are going to learn about various data structures like a link is
a star I could use graphs or trees hash table all these things we will try to represent them as abstract
data type.
So I'll be showing you the code for C language as well as I'll be showing you the code for C++ so I'll
be showing you how ADT is implemented we will be defining all these data structures as abstract data
types to C++.
So while learning other topics I'll show you how it is working as editing.
Now next let us look at these operations on the list.
I'll just explain you feel operations on the list.
What is the meaning of these operations.
I'll explain you the operations on a list.
Let us look at the operations one by one.
See first operation.
I will call you guys AG add some element
adding an element.
This means the meaning that I want to add something to the end of a list like suppose I want to add
15 so 15 should be added here at the index 7.
So arguments adding an element to the end of the list.
Does the meaning that we can take.
And even this ADD can also be called as an opinion element.
Write in short for an element.
So this also means that adding some element at the end of a list now makes operation add an element
at a given index.
So adding an element at a given index for example I want to add Brady at index 6.
So here I want to insert 20.
So you do me it's already done elements to Well is there then I should shift the element and make a
free space for 20.
So it means I should move 15 to the next place on index 8 and I should bring 2 well here then I should
insert 20 here.
So if you want to insert any element at a given index then you have to shift the elements.
So that's what adding an element at a given index adding an element at a given index.
This can also be called as insert insert about given index.
I like being shot that is I can be X for index this element adding at a given index we can also call
it does insert that next remove removing an element so which many want removed you must give an index.
Suppose I want to remove 20 the one I have instead of just no.
So it means the string should be removed when you remove penalty.
That place will be vacant in the list.
So we have to shift the rest of the elements so to others should come here and 15 should come here.
So I'll be having total eight elements index from 0 to 7.
So that's all removing one element for us from the elements are still the part of a list.
Removing from given index the next operation is set at Index a new element.
This means changing an element at a given index.
Suppose I want to change an element of index three to thirty five so change this form to value five.
So circuit can also be called us three please.
That is replacing an element or replace either given index a new element in Ealing then get index.
This is just I want to know the element at a given index like I want to know what is there right index
5 index 5 the value is 10.
So knowing an element from a given index that search for any given key so searching an element in a
list like I want to search for an element 9.
So yes it is found here and indexed to the result of searches.
We get the index we know the element 9.
We want to search for it so we should know where it is in the list.
Search site index tool so search searching for an element to find its index effort is present in the
list.
The search is also called as contains contains key.
So we want to know whether this key element is there in the list or not.
The list contains that element unknown mix.
You might want to sort the list.
So you want to arrange all these elements in some order that if you want to make it to the sorted list.
So these are the few operations on the list.
I have shown you there are other operation folks who can perform that as you can reverse the list.
And then there are more than one lists you can combine them or you can add more to them or you can split
a list.
So a lot of other operations you can perform on a list.
So either part off topic that is ADT I have taken an example of a list and I have shown you how it is
represented and what other operations.
So I have explained you all these operations means so that's all about ADT.
So let us move one to the next topic.